= jASN1 User Guide
include::common-settings.txt[]


:numbered:

== Intro


jASN1 can be used for ASN.1 BER/DER encoding/decoding using Java. It
consists of two projects: jasn1-compiler (licensed under GPLv3) and
the jasn1 library (licensed under LGPLv2.1). The jasn1-compiler is an
application that creates Java classes from ASN.1 syntax. These
generated classes can then be used together with the jasn1 library to
efficiently encode and decode messages using the Basic Encoding Rules
(BER).

The software has been tested under Linux, Android and Windows.

For the latest release of this software visit http://www.openmuc.org .

    
== Distribution

After extracting the distribution tar file the jASN1 libraries can be
found in the directory _build/libs-all_. For license information check
the _license_ directory in the distribution. Run scripts to run the
ASN.1 compiler are found in the folder _run-scripts_.

=== Dependencies

Besides the jASN1 libraries the folder _build/libs-all/_ contains the
following external library:

ANTLR::
    
  ANTLR, License: The BSD License, http://www.antlr.org Copyright (c)
  2012 Terence Parr and Sam Harwell All rights reserved.

+
    
The jasn1-compiler uses ANTLR to parse the ASN.1 definitions. The
excellent grammar to generate the ANTLR parser was taken from the
BinaryNotes ASN.1 Framework (http://bnotes.sourceforge.net/ licensed
under the Apache 2.0 license).  Copyright 2006-2011 Abdulla
Abdurakhmanov (abdulla@latestbit.com)

== How to use jASN1

In a first step you have to compile the ASN.1 code of your choice to
Java classes. To run the compiler you can use the run scripts for
Linux and Windows found in the _run-scripts_ folder. Executing the
scripts without any parameters will print help information to the
screen.

The generated classes can then be used to easily encode and decode BER
encoded data. The encoded data will confirm to the DER syntax. For an
example on how to use the generated classes see the folder
_projects/jasn1-compiler/src/sample/java/org/openmuc/jasn1/sample/_.


=== ASN1 syntax:

In some cases it could be favorable not to decode elements of type ANY
because it would involve big array copying. Therefor the compiler
supports the alternative element type called ANY_NODECODE which can be
used inside the ASN.1 file in order to generate Java code that will
not decode nor encode elements of these types.


== Modifying and Compiling jASN1

We use the Gradle build automation tool. The distribution contains a
fully functional gradle build file (_build.gradle_). Thus if you
changed code and want to rebuild a library you can do it easily with
Gradle. Also if you want to import our software into Eclipse you can
easily create Eclipse project files using Gradle. Just follow the
instructions on our
link:https://www.openmuc.org/faq/gradle_getting_started/[FAQ site].


== Authors

* Stefan Feuerhahn
